The inner of things in automotive space.
We all love cars, right?
They're getting fancier by the day, and
you're at the point where cars is gonna
be 90% software, only 10% hardware.
It's like millions of lines of code.
I was actually getting a ride from
a friend in his new Tesla, and
he was telling me like
I shouldn't say new.
He had it for three years.
He was telling me he has a better
car now than he had three years ago.
I said, what are you talking about?
Do you have a different car?
No, it's the same car.
So why do you say that?
He says it's the software updates.
The functionality of the car gets
better with these new software updates.
Apparently the Tesla when
you are on an incline,
before it was not perfectly
rolled back and then guess what?
Came out and software updated.
It has a better algorithm
to kind of balance it out.
So he says I have a better car
now than he did three years ago,
thanks to software and remote update.
So I want to kind of partition
the car into like the the features
available one is the high end cars have,
some of the high end cars constantly have
activity in order words
a phone is better in the car,
which has a constant an IP address,
the car can be pinged at any time.
Not all cars have that, most of the lower
end cars like his they tend to try to
use your phone for backend connectivity.
So, you get in with your phone to the car.
The phone has bluetooth and
the car connects to your phone though
bluetooth and some data is exchanged.
And, that's sent to the backend.
So, for
cars where the cost has to be low, they
can't afford to fit in an embedded cell.
And finally there's this
thing at called OBD-II.
It stands for
Onboard Diagnostics Connector.
So this is the one your mechanic plugs
in whenever some check engine light or
something comes on.
The car is putting out some
codes through this connector.
Hey this is what's going on, they
translated that code to what the problem
is, and in fact you can talk
through the connector too.
There are these dongles available
through Bluetooth, you plug it in, and
you can get those codes.
In fact, you can get information
such as how far the car is gone,
GPS information, but
not enough to mess up the car but
those hackers been hacking
the car remotely these days.
Tesla has been shut down,
Jeep has been shut down.
So all these vulnerabilities,
your car is becoming like the computers so
they can remotely be shown
how to turn off these cars.
But, just keep this in mind and
connection to the car using your phone
as [INAUDIBLE] and this connector.
So let's talk a bit
about what are possible.
So let's take the first scenario where
something like a Tesla which has built in
connection, embedded connection,
and has on board connectors.
So some of the services I'm talking
about here are kind of arcane,
like it's not futuristic.
These have been around for awhile,
but I just want to give you a flavor.
One is airbag deployment.
You go into a tree, remote somewhere,
no one has seen the car go into a tree.
But the car knows the airbag has deployed,
you hit a tree,
because it puts this message in the bus,
and how to inform somebody.
So the car is built in, if it has
an embedded unit, it can inform that hey,
make a call, remotely tell
somebody the airbag is deployed.
And it also sends the location, where
the car is, because it has built in GPS.
It can send you help.
Dolan Lock.
A lot of times you walk out, boom.
You forget the keys in the car and
you lock the car.
How to remotely unlock the car.
So if it has this built
in embedded system,
you can send a command to
the car through its IP.
Get in contact and say unlock.
But then there's this problem the cars.
This device is not going to be on all
the time because of power constraints.
You can suck the car battery dry.
Not that this takes that much power,
but who knows.
You may leave your car in the parking
lot of an airport, be gone for a month.
When you come back,
your car still shouldn't start.
So there are requirements in the amount
of power this device can draw from
the car battery.
And so the way you'll approach
this problem is wake up cycles.
This thing will wake up every ten minutes,
15 minutes, you got something for me?
Is there any messages waiting for me?
If it does, then it will process that.
One of the messages is, unlock the car.
Boom, it unlocks the car.
So it's not going to be
an immediate unlock.
Any type of things where you wanna
have don't, even in this course,
you wanna have something running
on its own without electric power,
you need to have some kind
of a wake up strategy.
For example,
you may run a system where your thing
doesn't need to be on 24 hours a day.
Maybe just eight hours.
You can set it to go to sleep, but
sometimes you may have another device
wake it up which is more power efficient.
Honk Horn is like yeah,
you park somewhere in a parking lot,
it's eight layers deep and
you come back and you can't find your car.
And your remote fob only works
at a certain distance and
you're trying to find your car.
You can use these systems to
remotely make your car honk.
And also remotely start your car.
You live in a cold, frigid place and
you know how you go sit in the car and
let the car run for
like two minutes while you're freezing.
In this case, you can just say,
I'm ready to go to work.
Let it start remotely and then when it
warmed up you go hop in, get to work.
And also stop you from from texting,
right, you know it's crazy.
You drive by in the car,
you see everybody's like [SOUND] you know.
It's scary and I'm doing that too,
watching like.
It's impossible to stop yourself
from interacting with your phone.
So there are people who come up with
solutions through these OBD connector,
when you know it's driving, it talks
to the phone through Bluetooth, and
says you're driving now, I know you're
driving now I won't let you use the phone.
But it requires,
it should say permission from your part,
it's not gonna happen automatically.
Finally vehicle diagnostics.
You know these vehicle recalls you hear
about, they discover something for you,
they wait until three years later and
then so
many people have died in vehicle crashes.
And this could be prevented
by this IoT type of stuff.
What's happening is that car manufacturers
find out something that is wrong through
when people take their cars
to the other dealers and
the auto dealers send that
information to the manufacturers.
Hey, we've got so many of this problem,
people complaining of this and
the manufacturers look at it,
by then it's too late.
Years have gone by.
And so many and next year models sold out
too, so there's no realtime feedback.
With a new approach, embedded system or
through your phone, the car is diagnosing
itself and sending this information
back to the manufacturer in realtime.
So if some fault happens,
they can catch the very early stage,
and prevent the problem,
the next leads are make recalls at a much
earlier stage than waiting for
a few years.
Okay so the next set is where the car
doesn't have an embedded phone but
it depends on your phone.
So you walk in with your phone, the car
knows your phone, it's through Bluetooth.
And it starts using
the services of your phone.
The Internet connection,
you've got your music in your phone.
You've got your contacts, calendar.
And this has to be married in
some integrated fashion so
you don't have to pull your
phone out of your pocket.
If you're in the car, let's say this
is what Apple's coming with, CarPlay.
You drop your phone into a connector.
All the services, your information,
entertainment in your phone should be
available in your car,
in a hands free mode, so
you can forget about driving and
interact with your phone.
I'm just kidding.
The distractions are increasingly
complex these days.
You know when the radio came on,
they introduced the radio in the car,
I don't know, 60?
70 years ago?
They had the same complaint, oh but
it's gonna be a distraction to the driver.
But now the phone's invading your car and
you're gonna be distracted no doubt what.
So Apple has this Car Play, and
Google has Open Automotive Alliance,
like how to, bringing your car
bringing your phone into your car and
offer each other service in a none
destructive fashion easier said and
then done right but
you gonna see that it's gonna happen and
finally wait to communication
increasingly hot topic.
It's how cars are gonna start
communicating with each other.
Send some information back and
forth, ideas like, you know if like,
further down the freeway, there is
an accident happening, your car comes
to a screech, and the cars kind of relay
the information back down the line,
and there's also there's something called
[INAUDIBLE] infrastructure communication,
where car sends information
infrastructure on the side of the freeway.
And for an interesting application I
heard was like, if you have cars going
down a freeway, all had their wiper
blades going, means it's raining, right?
And each car knows where it is and
it knows the wiper blades are on, and it
can send information back to the server,
hey, here's my location, here's my status.
And it can infer weather conditions based
on information coming from the car.
So, all these great things are happening.
So, in this course, I don't know if
you get to work with the car, but
if you do it'd be so cool, but stay safe.